---
title: 'Kuari Pass Trek: A Journey Through the Garhwal Himalayas'
date: '2025-03-15'
author: 'Amit'
---

# Kuari Pass Trek: A Journey Through the Garhwal Himalayas

![Kuari Pass](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mmaismma/baha-assets/refs/heads/main/images/trek/plan/kuaripassviadhak/kuaripassviadhak_detail3.png)

## Introduction

My recent adventure took me from the bustling city of Bangalore to the
serene and majestic Kuari Pass in the Garhwal Himalayas. Known for its
breathtaking landscapes and challenging trails, the Kuari Pass Trek has
always been on my bucket list. Here’s a detailed account of my journey,
from planning and preparations to the unforgettable experiences along
the trek.

Before setting off, I had to ensure I was physically and mentally
prepared for the trek. Regular cardio workouts and strength training
helped me build the stamina needed for the trek. I also invested in
quality trekking gear, including sturdy boots, a waterproof jacket, and
a reliable backpack.

Living in Bangalore, the first step was to plan my travel to
Uttarakhand. I booked a flight from Kempegowda International Airport to
Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun. From there, my journey continued by
road to Joshimath, the base for the Kuari Pass Trek.It is about a 250
km drive from Rishikesh to Joshimath and takes about eight to nine hours
with a couple of breaks.

Nestled in the heart of the Garhwal Himalayas, the Kuari Pass Trek is a
dream come true for me. This trek, also known as **the Lord Curzon
Trail**, offers breathtaking views of some of the most majestic peaks in
India, including Nanda Devi, Dronagiri, and Kamet. The journey through
lush forests, quaint villages, and expansive meadows makes it a perfect
blend of nature, culture, and adventure.

Our trek to Kuari Pass started from the town of Joshimath in
Uttarakhand.

## Joshimath to Dhak to Gulling

After a hearty breakfast, we set off for the village of Dhak, the
starting point of the trek. The initial part of the trek involved a
gentle climb through terraced fields and sparse forests. The weather was
perfect, and the trail offered stunning views of the surrounding peaks
and the Alaknanda River. By afternoon, we reached the charming campsite
at Gulling, nestled among oak and rhododendron trees. The evening was
spent around a campfire, sharing stories with fellow trekkers and
soaking in the tranquillity of the mountains.

## Gulling to Tali Top

The next day, we trekked from Gulling to Tali Top. The trail took us
deeper into the forest, with the landscape gradually changing from oak
to dense rhododendron forests. The spring season had adorned the trail
with vibrant rhododendron blossoms, adding a splash of colour to the
journey. Tali Top, at 11,070 feet, offered panoramic views of the
surrounding mountains and a serene campsite under a canopy of stars. The
night was magical, with the clear skies revealing a blanket of twinkling
stars.

## Tali Top to Kuari Pass and back to Tali Top

This was the most challenging yet rewarding day of the trek. The trail
ascended through rocky terrain and snow patches, leading us to the Kuari
Pass at 12,516 feet. The 360-degree view from the pass was simply
breathtaking, with towering peaks like Nanda Devi, Dronagiri,
Chaukhamba, and Hathi Ghoda surrounding us. We spent some time at the
pass, taking in the stunning views and capturing memories, before
descending back to Tali Top for the night. The sense of accomplishment
was overwhelming.

## Day 4: Tali Top to Auli via Gurson Bugyal

The final day of the trek took us through the picturesque meadows of
Gurson Bugyal. The expansive views of the snow-capped peaks were a treat
for the eyes. The trail gently descended to Auli, a popular skiing
destination. From Auli, a short drive brought us back to Joshimath,
where I reflected on the incredible journey I had just completed. The
trek had been a perfect blend of adventure, nature, and serenity.

## Conclusion

The Kuari Pass Trek was an unforgettable experience, offering a perfect
escape from the hustle and bustle of city life. The journey from
Bangalore to the Garhwal Himalayas was filled with excitement,
challenges, and breathtaking views. This trek not only allowed me to
reconnect with nature but also provided a sense of inner peace and
accomplishment. If you’re looking for an adventure that combines
stunning landscapes with a rich cultural experience, the Kuari Pass Trek
is a must-do.

**Next is for you!**

## Best Time to Visit

The Kuari Pass Trek can be undertaken year-round, but the best time is
from April to June and September to November. During these months, the
weather is pleasant, and the trails are clear, offering the best views
of the surrounding mountains. In winter, the trek transforms into a
snow-covered wonderland, providing a different but equally enchanting
experience.

So, pack your bags, lace up your boots, and get ready for an adventure
of a lifetime in the lap of the Himalayas!
